The Joe Rogan experience. It's supposed to be amazing fishing.
The Catalina apparently is like the greatest Maaco shark fishing in the world,
which is, here's a weird one, shark fishing, all of a sudden, you're an.
They used to be with jaws. Like you caught a shark. Hey, good.
Get that thing out of here. They're going to kill people now.
It's like you monster shark's fin soup. Don't you care about that?
Don't you know, this global warming, like everything is conflated.
It's all like piled on together. Like what are you doing with a shark?
You used to be able to buy Maaco shark in a restaurant.
Oh, you still see it. But there, there is a, there is,
I saw a thresher shark the other day on a menu. I did a story.
I did a magazine story about this long, long ago. It was like,
it was right when I got out of school and it was the first assignment I had to
go write an article and I was wearing it for outside magazine. And, um,
this is 19 years ago, man. And there's a thing called Maaco madness.
And it was this thing in Montauk. Uh, you know, what's funny about doing this.
This was in 2000 and I got sent out there and had never,
ever been to New York and I didn't even go into the city.
I just flew into wherever the hell I flew into and got a car and stupidly took a
cab to, I didn't understand the, I was just very young. I didn't understand,
like I took a cab from the airport out to Montauk. Oh my God.
How much that.
Costs. I don't even remember. I remember like when I had to turn my expenses,
people like on what I didn't know, but anyways, it was funny cause uh,
I remember driving along and seeing the,
it was like the summer before and seeing this when it was like a year before and
seeing the twin towers, you know, uh,
and I was like my first ever view and I never saw that place again.
I never saw it again till after,
but there's this thing called a Maaco madness and was like a sharp tournament.
And traditionally had been like a contest to get the biggest shark and they
would bet money on it. And there was like the general registration fee.
So all these captains who had charter boats would join Maaco madness node
book clients on their boats for Maaco madness. And when you had to,
you had to pay some amount of money to there's probably still goes on.
You had to pay some amount of money to register your boat,
to be in the contest.
But the real money was in all these side bets called Cal cutters.
And so you could, there was enough side betting going on,
run all the various captains that the biggest Maaco could win a hundred
thousand couple hundred thousand dollars to catch the biggest Maaco.
But the sort of the fatal flaw in this tournament
from a poet perception standpoint would be that there was a category for just
biggest shark. And there's a category for like biggest Maaco.
So people going out like at a time,
this is when at this is when shark populations were still,
you know, and globally they're still on a decline,
but there was still a lot of shark bycatch from soy fish,
long lining and other things.
And there was people were getting very worried about shark stocks and shark
numbers. Um, and at one time madness,
there's a lot more makers like people be register makos,
but there had been some years where Maaco madness had no makos.
People were bringing in a Maaco,
so everyone would go out and just make sure that like,
I don't want to come back empty.
So they would catch a blue shark because if no one caught a
Maaco, you still might get biggest shark from catching a blue shark.
And at the end of this thing, man, they had dumpsters. They were not dumpsters.
They had,
they would fill a dumpster with blue sharks and knowing where
the dude it would, no, it would go into a dumpster. You can eat blue shark.
Yeah. Well you can, they're high in urea and just, you know,
it's like everything else, like yes,
you can pose the most edible Maaco thresher um,
can you eat a great white, you know,
what's funny about great whites is there's a guy as a writer. I love.
And he does all of these fisheries guidebooks named Vic Dunaway.
I don't know if he's dead or alive, but I got all of his books.
He's got like Gulf coast, Pacific ocean land coast. Um, he does these books.
Like it's like all the fish that you're likely to catch kind of like how to
catch them. And then he, what I like about it,
he's got like a clout food quality section and his food quality
sections are really funny.
And like the highest praise you can give some like excellent or one of the best,
right? So if you look up snuck, it'd be like one of the best, um, his,
his headline for great, uh, I lurked in great white shark.
It says don't even ask,
but people feel that they be good because salmon shark are good.
These con porbeagles like salmon shark have a very good reputation and makos
have a good reputation and threshers have market value.
And there's other sharks and other areas that have market value.
But those ones are like, are ones that are popular table fare. Um,
the assumption is that white, that great white sharks would probably be good.
It must be somebody who's eating one. Oh,
I'm sure there's plenty of people that have eaten them.
But at this Maaco madness thing, I can't remember the point I was getting at,
what the hell was I driving at? But talking about Maaco madness. Oh,
in this article I got into like the history of where like shark hunting and
killing sharks came from is you're familiar with jaws. Right?
Well sort of the shark fishermen character in jaws is based on this like very
real dude, Frank Mundus and Frank Mundus used to fish out of Montauk.
And at a time Montauk was this premier destination for catching swordfish and
big bluefin tuna.
And as those big pelagic fisheries had collapsed from over fishing in the
seventies, Frank Mundus,
he'd go out and he'd just go out and find, uh, you know, he'd go out famously,
he'd go out and find a beach whale or not a beach whale,
but a floating dead whale. And he'd anchor up on that whale and catch big,
great whites,
and then come in and hang the bloody carcass up on the docks.
And he made necklaces with tooth sharks and.
And he became like the monster man or something of the monster hunter and
started booking all these crazy trips where tourists would come be like, holy.
I want to go kill a big monster.
And he's credited with having created this like culture,
like going out and getting, yeah. That's Frank Mondo.
Let me see that picture of the left.
Dude.
So yeah,
he kinda like built this idea of like shark haunting and in light shark bite.
And his forearm go back to that. That'd.
Be interesting.
Well, understood forum. Ah, something took a bite out of that.
Yes. He's got the necklace. Yeah,
the dead shark and Frank Mundus kind of like,
like spawned this sort of thing where you'd want to go out and catch a big shark
and hang it up and then throw it in the dumpster.
Wow.
And people look at like, when people look at that history,
they look at it being is like,
it's like in some ways Mundus and shark hunting was symptomatic
of declining fisheries.
Look at that picture of him and the dude with, from the movie.
They're so similar. Look at that.
The black and white and the color next to each other. Look at that.
Oh yeah.
What was that? Guy's name? The guy in the movie.
Can't remember what was the actor's name? That guy was awesome.
What a great scene.
You know, Mo Fallon. Yeah. That's his favorite movie.
I think it's a great mobile. Dirty loves John.
It's interesting that the negative,
the next time you see them having convinced you that jaws is the greatest movie
ever.
That's a great movie. It's a great movie, Richard Dreyfus and come on, um,
the narrative of a shark's fin soup and sharks being, you know,
something that we need to protect that sort of, it's a new thing.
It's something that only existed over the last decade or so I think so. Yeah.
It used to be, if you caught a shark, like good for you, you,
you keeping it from killing someone who's swimming or someone is surfing.
Th th the idea of shark's fin soup and its allure was driven home to me one time
when we were in Berkeley and we were at a boat launch,
we'd come off fishing and we'd been out fishing for leopard sharks. Um,
remember I had the life aquatic. That's a good movie.
Do you like his stuff or no? Bill Murray love him.
I mean like the director Anderson.
Was saying, oh, what has he done besides that a.
Royal Tenenbaums.
Oh, okay. Yeah. I like that.
Yeah. Yeah. I think his masterpiece is the life aquatic, but, uh,
and there, they got, you know, the,
the famous shark and here's the Jaguar shark, which is a good idea for shark.
I don't think it exists,
but there are leopard sharks and we're fishing for leopard sharks.
We came back to the boat launch and there's a dumpster there and everybody
cleans or fish and fills a fish guts and the dumpster.
And I remember there was a gentlemen digging through the dumpster,
getting out leopard, shark fins, and, and heads and stuff.
And I took pity on him.
I thought that he was acting out of some sort of desperation. And I said,
uh, Hey man, do you want like a nice filet?
I'd be happy to give you a filet. And he's like, no,
you just want just the fence.
Just to make soup. Yeah. Yeah. Have you ever had it? No.
Shark fin SU yeah. Did you enjoy it? It was weird.
It weird. It was like, it's okay. It's okay.
It's definitely not worth eradicating a entire species.
No, it's a little disgusting. Uh,
it's a little disgusting and you know, I'm always reluctant, like, uh,
I'm always reluctant to,
I'm a little bit reluctant to sort of, uh,
over simplify things around, around harvest and,
and animals and stuff because, uh,
I think people can take it too far,
but if you've seen footage of people cutting fins and dumping the sharks in the
water and kicking the sharks off the deck, into the water dark, and I think,
but it speaks to something. I think that seeing like live Finless sharks,
going into the water speaks to something about just your level of care.
Do you want me, like, whether you view something as, as sacred or not,
it's hard to see the individual engaging in that is viewing it as,
as sacred. And there's like, oh, you know,
there's a lot of stories about even like swordfish captains, uh, you know,
burning blue sharks and stuff in AFA because they lose so much of their sword
fish catch the blue sharks, but to see people kicking them off,
it speaks to something about animal suffering.
It speaks to something about like, what does that person's view of the resource,
like to what boot, how do they respect it?
But it also speaks to like a general thing where you,
you don't like to see things wasted. Yeah.
And then my understanding about like one of the things that slowed in us waters,
one of the things that slowed finning was just used to be able to go out and you
could feel your hold full of just sharp parts. If you were a,
a fishing cap, then you could just be like, I'm just gonna keep the fins.
And eventually they made it. Um,
I'm sure someone will correct me if I'm wrong here. I don't think I am.
They eventually made it that whatever you have for shark materials in your boat
on a commercial operation, only a certain percentage can be comprised of fins.
And since when you're on a commercial vessel, you're hold like your, your,
the air where you keep iced fish is finite. It's limited. Um, it want to being,
not worth it because let's say only like 30% of your shark parts could be
shark fins and you had to keep the rest.
It wasn't worth it to fill your hold full, like shark meat.
And so it sort of de-incentivize people to go out and fin in us waters. Mm.
That makes sense. I had it a long time ago.
I had it back in probably the nineties at a Chinese restaurant.
In the U S or overseas.